=======
Joining
=======

English `Finnish`_

.. _Finnish: liittyminen.html

The Fenfire Foundation is a Finnish not-for-profit association
(incorporation in progress), whose purpose is to further technical
means of managing information.

Members of the Foundation are all individual persons.  There are no
formal qualifications for membership, but each member candidate is
evaluated individually by the executive committee, who makes the final
decision on whether a candidate is admitted to the membership.

Members have statutory and regular privileges, thee most important of
which is a vote in general meetings of the Foundation, the organ
exercising supreme authority in the Foundation.  An annual Fall
Meeting elects the Executive Committee, which exercises executive
authority in the Foundation, as well as the Auditors who audit the
administration and finances of the Foundation as the membership's
representatives.  The auditors present their report to each annual
Spring Meeting.

A member is obliged to pay a one-time admittance fee and an annual
membership fee, both set at the previous Fall meeting.  In 2005, the
admittance fee is nought, and the membership fee is 10 euros.  The
fees are payable by cash to the Treasurer (currently Antti-Juhani
Kaijanaho) after admittance to the membership.  If cash payment is
inconvenient, alternate arrangements can be negotiated.

One who wishes to become a member of the Foundation must inform the
Foundation of this wish.  The notice must be in writing (an email is
acceptable) and explicit.  The notice must include the candidate's
full official name, a casual name to be used in correspondence, the
official place of residence, and contact information (a postal address
and an email address, if available).  The notice must also include a
statement from the candidate that he or she approves of the purpose of the
Foundation.  The notice is addressed to the executive committee and
mailed to the secretary in charge of membership at

::

  The Fenfire Foundation / Executive Committee
  c/o Antti-Juhani Kaijanaho
  Helokantie 1 A 16
  40640 JYVÄSKYLÄ
  FINLAND

or emailed to antti-juhani@kaijanaho.info (subject should include the
words The Fenfire Foundation).  A candidate cannot be admitted to the
membership if the notice is incomplete.

The following sample may be useful in crafting the notice:

::

   From: John Smith <john.smith@example.com>
   Subject: Becoming a member in The Fenfire Foundation
   To: antti-juhani@kaijanaho.info

   To the Executive Committee of The Fenfire Foundation

   I approve of The Fenfire Foundation's purpose and herewith
   seek membership in it.  My contact information:

    Mr. John Smith
    42 Example Drive
    Cabot Cove, ME 52110
    USA
    john.smith@example.com

   My full official name is Jonathan Barksdale Smith and my official
   place of residence is Cabot Cove, Maine, the United States of
   America.  For casual use of my name I recommend the form John
   Smith.

